[{"course": {"title": "Applied Business Leadership Skills for Entrepreneurs", "course_number": "600", "description": "The course provides students with the opportunity to develop a range of soft skills and the business acumen necessary to maximize the likelihood of success in an entrepreneurial environment.  Topics include written and oral communication skills, business planning, leadership skills, raising capital, product development, negotiation skills and sales management.  A range of applied approaches are used, including integrated cases, simulations, and hands-on work with local companies.  Most activities are team based.", "cid": "13080"}}, {"course": {"title": "Strategically Managing the Entrepreneurial Organization", "course_number": "601", "description": "Strategy development and implementation are examined as a means to guide decisions at each stage of the innovation and commercialization process. Insight is gained into the strategic issues faced by new ventures as they progress from seed/concept through market execution stages.  Strategic analysis techniques are used to identify and analyse issues and as input into the design of the business concept and business model.  The organizational structures, processes and policies used to build and maintain an entrepreneurial culture are key topics for the market execution stage.", "cid": "11687"}}, {"course": {"title": "Marketing Strategies for New Technology-based Ventures", "course_number": "602", "description": "Market-based management practices and the key relationships that enable businesses to attract, satisfy and retain customers, and grow their profits are examined.  The contribution of marketing strategy to the creation of value for both customers and shareholders is emphasized.  Particular attention is paid to the unique contexts of marketing knowledge-intensive products and services, new and rapidly growing markets, business markets, and investor relations.  Familiarity is developed with the marketing activities typical for each stage of the commercialization process.", "cid": "11688"}}, {"course": {"title": "Entrepreneurial Finance for the Technology-based Enterprise", "course_number": "603", "description": "Financial planning and decision-making skills are essential for effective management of new ventures operating in environments characterized by risk and uncertainty.  Development of pro forma financial statements and techniques for financial decision-making under uncertainty are explored.  Principles that guide the financing of new venture are presented, including considerations of capital structure, management of working capital, asset financing and forms of private and public equity.  The requirements of the venture capital due diligence process, negotiating with VC's, business valuation and exit alternatives are discussed.", "cid": "11689"}}, {"course": {"title": "High Performance Business Operations", "course_number": "604", "description": "Practical, hands-on approach to understanding and dealing with the operational issues associated with the management of technology-based ventures in fast-paced environments.  Key topics include an effective product development process, system integration management, hardware and software design issues, impact on manufacturability and quality, managing high-performance teams and project management.", "cid": "11690"}}, {"course": {"title": "Essential Accounting for Entrepreneurs", "course_number": "605", "description": "Examines the role of accounting information in assisting entrepreneurs.  By analysing and presenting financial statements of local technology companies, students develop proficiencies in understanding and interpreting financial statement information.  Attention is also directed to the role played by management accounting information played in supporting key start-up decisions, value-creating organization strategies, operational tactics and performance measurement.", "cid": "11691"}}, {"course": {"title": "Entrepreneurial Applications of Digital Media", "course_number": "606", "description": "Digital media is becoming a critical component of business success.  This is especially true for new, entrepreneurial ventures who, by their nature, seek to change the competitive landscape.  This course provides an overview of the strategic, operational and development issues associated with integrating digital media into business operations.  Topics include the impact of digital media on business models, and examination of associated strategic, marketing and regulatory issues. Practical aspects related to the management of implementation projects will also be examined.", "cid": "11692"}}, {"course": {"title": "Managing Technological Innovation", "course_number": "607", "description": "Management of technological innovation requires an understanding of the interaction of technology with all aspects of the organization to build and maintain sustainable competitive advantage.  The management of technology and innovation to formulate technology strategy, develop technological capabilities and use them to achieve strategic objectives is emphasised.  Evaluating new technologies, product development and deployment strategies are key topics.", "cid": "11693"}}, {"course": {"title": "Entrepreneurial Application of Technology", "course_number": "608", "description": "Business cases involving entrepreneurial successes and failures in applying technologies in innovative ways are evaluated.  Examples of innovative applications of technology include a variety of Internet applications, wireless communication technologies, intelligent agents, data analysis and decision support technologies, graphical display and visioning applications, and other innovative applications.  Key success factors and implementation requirements are identified and discussed.  Approaches for assessing the technology base and capabilities of a firm and the skills and resources required to manage technology in a start-up are key topics.", "cid": "11694"}}, {"course": {"title": "Social Entrepreneurship and Corporate Social Responsibility", "course_number": "620", "description": "Introduces students to the concepts of social entrepreneurship and corporate social responsibility from multidisciplinary perspectives.  Participants are challenged to become leaders in shaping socially responsible businesses and building a civil society through examination of emerging theory and practice, analysis of cases and an applied project with a community-based organization.", "cid": "13081"}}, {"course": {"title": "Topics in Business, Entrepreneurship and Technology", "course_number": "700", "description": "", "cid": "13082"}}]