[{"course": {"title": "Problems Seminar", "course_number": "119", "description": "Students may be assigned to a Problems Seminar by the Director or Associate Director of First-Year Engineering or Software Engineering according to their performance during the term. [Offered: F,W,S]", "cid": "9263"}}, {"course": {"title": "Digital Computation", "course_number": "121", "description": "Introduction to electronic digital computers, hardware and software organization, examples of efficient numerical algorithms for basic scientific computations. [Offered: F,W,S]", "cid": "5779"}}, {"course": {"title": "Electrical Engineering", "course_number": "123", "description": "Introduction to electric and magnetic fields; basic dc circuits; amplifiers and operational amplifiers; ac circuit components; basic ac circuits; power circuits. ", "cid": "5780"}}, {"course": {"title": "Special Topics in First Year Engineering", "course_number": "199", "description": "Various courses dealing with selected topics related to success in Waterloo Engineering. These courses will be offered as needed.", "cid": "13772"}}, {"course": {"title": "Topics for Technical Courses Taken on Exchange by Architecture Students", "course_number": "21A", "description": "Courses taken at foreign universities by University of Waterloo architecture students while enrolled in an international exchange institution, and reserved for courses without equivalents at the University of Waterloo. These courses are treated as technical electives in the student's program. Such courses are reported on the student's transcript with their original titles in English showing as the topic. The grades for these courses will be either CR or NCR.", "cid": "12565"}}, {"course": {"title": "Topics for Technical Courses Taken on Exchange by Chemical Engineering Students", "course_number": "21C", "description": "Courses taken at foreign universities by University of Waterloo engineering students while enrolled in an international exchange institution, and reserved for courses without equivalents at the University of Waterloo. These courses are treated as technical electives in the student's program. Such courses are reported on the student's transcript with their original titles in English showing as the topic. The grades for these courses will be either CR or NCR.", "cid": "11799"}}, {"course": {"title": "Topics for Technical Courses Taken on Exchange by Systems Design Engineering Students", "course_number": "21D", "description": "Courses taken at foreign universities by University of Waterloo engineering students while enrolled in an international exchange institution, and reserved for courses without equivalents at the University of Waterloo. These courses are treated as technical electives in the student's program. Such courses are reported on the student's transcript with their original titles in English showing as the topic. The grades for these courses will be either CR or NCR.", "cid": "11807"}}, {"course": {"title": "Topics for Technical Courses Taken on Exchange by Electrical Engineering Students", "course_number": "21E", "description": "Courses taken at foreign universities by University of Waterloo engineering students while enrolled in an international exchange institution, and reserved for courses without equivalents at the University of Waterloo. These courses are treated as technical electives in the student's program. Such courses are reported on the student's transcript with their original titles in English showing as the topic. The grades for these courses will be either CR or NCR.", "cid": "11802"}}, {"course": {"title": "Topics for Technical Courses Taken on Exchange by Environmental Engineering Students", "course_number": "21I", "description": "Courses taken at foreign universities by University of Waterloo engineering students while enrolled in an international exchange institution, and reserved for courses without equivalents at the University of Waterloo. These courses are treated as technical electives in the student's program. Such courses are reported on the student's transcript with their original titles in English showing as the topic. The grades for these courses will be either CR or NCR.", "cid": "11803"}}, {"course": {"title": "Topics for Technical Courses Taken on Exchange by Civil Engineering Students", "course_number": "21K", "description": "Courses taken at foreign universities by University of Waterloo engineering students while enrolled in an international exchange institution, and reserved for courses without equivalents at the University of Waterloo. These courses are treated as technical electives in the student's program. Such courses are reported on the student's transcript with their original titles in English showing as the topic. The grades for these courses will be either CR or NCR.", "cid": "11800"}}, {"course": {"title": "Topics for Technical Courses Taken on Exchange by Geological Engineering Students", "course_number": "21L", "description": "Courses taken at foreign universities by University of Waterloo engineering students while enrolled in an international exchange institution, and reserved for courses without equivalents at the University of Waterloo. These courses are treated as technical electives in the student's program. Such courses are reported on the student's transcript with their original titles in English showing as the topic. The grades for these courses will be either CR or NCR.", "cid": "11804"}}, {"course": {"title": "Topics for Technical Courses Taken on Exchange by Mechanical Engineering Students", "course_number": "21M", "description": "Courses taken at foreign universities by University of Waterloo engineering students while enrolled in an international exchange institution, and reserved for courses without equivalents at the University of Waterloo. These courses are treated as technical electives in the student's program. Such courses are reported on the student's transcript with their original titles in English showing as the topic. The grades for these courses will be either CR or NCR.", "cid": "11805"}}, {"course": {"title": "Topics for Technical Courses Taken on Exchange by Computer Engineering Students", "course_number": "21Q", "description": "Courses taken at foreign universities by University of Waterloo engineering students while enrolled in an international exchange institution, and reserved for courses without equivalents at the University of Waterloo. These courses are treated as technical electives in the student's program. Such courses are reported on the student's transcript with their original titles in English showing as the topic. The grades for these courses will be either CR or NCR.", "cid": "11801"}}, {"course": {"title": "Topics for Technical Courses Taken on Exchange by Software Engineering Students", "course_number": "21S", "description": "Courses taken at foreign universities by University of Waterloo engineering students while enrolled in an international exchange institution, and reserved for courses without equivalents at the University of Waterloo. These courses are treated as technical electives in the student's program. Such courses are reported on the student's transcript with their original titles in English showing as the topic. The grades for these courses will be either CR or NCR.", "cid": "11808"}}, {"course": {"title": "Topics for Technical Courses Taken on Exchange by Mechatronics Engineering Students", "course_number": "21T", "description": "Courses taken at foreign universities by University of Waterloo engineering students while enrolled in an international exchange institution, and reserved for courses without equivalents at the University of Waterloo. These courses are treated as technical electives in the student's program. Such courses are reported on the student's transcript with their original titles in English showing as the topic. The grades for these courses will be either CR or NCR.", "cid": "11806"}}, {"course": {"title": "Topics for List A Complementary Studies Courses Taken on Exchange by Engineering Students", "course_number": "22A", "description": "Courses taken at foreign universities by University of Waterloo engineering students while enrolled in an international exchange institution, and reserved for courses without equivalents at the University of Waterloo. These courses are treated as list A complementary studies electives in the student's program. Such courses are reported on the student's transcript with their original titles in English showing as the topic. The grades for these courses will be either CR or NCR.", "cid": "11809"}}, {"course": {"title": "Topics for List B Complementary Studies Courses Taken on Exchange by Engineering Students", "course_number": "22B", "description": "Courses taken at foreign universities by University of Waterloo engineering students while enrolled in an international exchange institution, and reserved for courses without equivalents at the University of Waterloo. These courses are treated as list B complementary studies electives in the student's program. Such courses are reported on the student's transcript with their original titles in English showing as the topic. The grades for these courses will be either CR or NCR.", "cid": "11810"}}, {"course": {"title": "Topics for List C Complementary Studies Courses Taken on Exchange by Engineering Students", "course_number": "22C", "description": "Courses taken at foreign universities by University of Waterloo engineering students while enrolled in an international exchange institution, and reserved for courses without equivalents at the University of Waterloo. These courses are treated as list C complementary studies electives in the student's program. Such courses are reported on the student's transcript with their original titles in English showing as the topic. The grades for these courses will be either CR or NCR.", "cid": "11811"}}, {"course": {"title": "Topics for List D Complementary Studies Courses Taken on Exchange by Engineering Students", "course_number": "22D", "description": "Courses taken at foreign universities by University of Waterloo engineering students while enrolled in an international exchange institution, and reserved for courses without equivalents at the University of Waterloo. These courses are treated as list D complementary studies electives in the student's program. Such courses are reported on the student's transcript with their original titles in English showing as the topic. The grades for these courses will be either CR or NCR.", "cid": "11812"}}, {"course": {"title": "Special Directed Studies", "course_number": "301", "description": "This course is provided to allow enrichment for students in Engineering who have fulfilled the requirements of one or more of the courses in the 3A or 3B term by means of passing a course or courses taken during one or more work terms. The course comprises a special project pursued under the direction of a faculty member, normally in the department of the student's program. ", "cid": "5786"}}, {"course": {"title": "Special Directed Studies", "course_number": "302", "description": "This course is provided to allow enrichment for students in Engineering who have fulfilled the requirements of one or more of the courses in the 3A or 3B term by means of passing a course or courses taken during one or more work terms. The course comprises a special project pursued under the direction of a faculty member, normally in the department of the student's program. ", "cid": "5787"}}, {"course": {"title": "International Studies In Engineering", "course_number": "303", "description": "Engineering students register for this course for credit towards the Designated Faculty Option in International Studies in Engineering upon return from study or work terms abroad. Credit will be assessed on the basis of a written report and individual interviews. The report may include technical, non-technical, and professional aspects of the foreign residence experience. It may discuss socio-economic aspects of life in the foreign country, and it may compare and contrast conditions in the country or countries involved in the student's international experiences, or trace the social or political histories of those countries. In all cases the report must include materials addressed to the needs of other students considering a similar experience. The instructor for this course is the Option Co-ordinator. Restricted to students who intend to complete the option in International Studies in Engineering. [Offered: F,W,S]", "cid": "5788"}}, {"course": {"title": "Special Directed Non-Technical Studies", "course_number": "315", "description": "This course is provided for students who, through academic studies during international exchange programs or other university related scholarly activities, wish to request a course credit for this work. Students wishing to claim this credit must show evidence of university level academic activity not otherwise claimed for credit. ", "cid": "5789"}}, {"course": {"title": "Engineering Study Abroad", "course_number": "395", "description": "Waterloo students studying abroad for academic transfer credits under an Engineering Exchange Program during a Fall term register at Waterloo under GENE 395. [Offered: F]", "cid": "10162"}}, {"course": {"title": "Engineering Study Abroad", "course_number": "396", "description": "Waterloo students studying abroad for academic transfer credits under an Engineering Exchange Program during a Winter term register at Waterloo under GENE 396. [Offered: W]", "cid": "10163"}}, {"course": {"title": "Engineering Study Abroad", "course_number": "397", "description": "Waterloo students studying abroad for academic transfer credits under an Engineering Exchange Program during a Spring term register at Waterloo under GENE 397. [Offered: S]", "cid": "10022"}}, {"course": {"title": "Special Directed Studies", "course_number": "401", "description": "This course is provided to allow enrichment for students in Engineering who have fulfilled the requirements of one or more of the courses in the 4A or 4B term by means of passing a course or courses taken during one or more work terms. The course comprises a special project pursued under the direction of a faculty member, normally in the department of the student's program. ", "cid": "5807"}}, {"course": {"title": "Special Directed Studies", "course_number": "402", "description": "This course is provided to allow enrichment for students in Engineering who have fulfilled the requirements of one or more of the courses in the 4A or 4B term by means of passing a course or courses taken during one or more work terms. The course comprises a special project pursued under the direction of a faculty member, normally in the department of the student's program. ", "cid": "5809"}}, {"course": {"title": "Engineering Law and Ethics", "course_number": "411", "description": "Background (Charter of Rights and Freedoms), Contracts, Torts (Negligent Malpractice), Forms of Carrying on Business, Intellectual Property (Patents, Trade Marks, Copyrights and Industrial Designs), Professional Practice (Professional Engineers Act, Professional Misconduct and Sexual Harassment), Alternate Dispute Resolution, Labour Relations and Employment Law, Environmental Law. [Offered: W]", "cid": "5810"}}, {"course": {"title": "Ethics and The Engineering Profession", "course_number": "412", "description": "An analysis from the standpoint of philosophical ethics of moral issues arising in professional engineering practice. Issues include the social responsibility of engineers, conflict of interest and obligation, morally acceptable levels of risk, and moral implications of technology. [Offered: W]", "cid": "5811"}}, {"course": {"title": "Special Directed Non-Technical Studies", "course_number": "415", "description": "This course is provided for students who, through academic studies during international exchange programs or other university related scholarly activities, wish to request a course credit for this work. Students wishing to claim this credit must show evidence of university level academic activity not otherwise claimed for credit. ", "cid": "5812"}}, {"course": {"title": "Directed Studies for Visiting Exchange Students", "course_number": "501", "description": "An assignment of study or project work under the direction of a Faculty member. The specific project is established on the basis of a written proposal that is agreed to by the supervisors at both the host and home institutions. The academic level and the time commitment shall be specified in the proposal. Registration is restricted to international exchange students at Waterloo under an Exchange Agreement with the Faculty of Engineering. Candidates for degrees at the University of Waterloo are not eligible. A student must arrange with a Waterloo Faculty member to serve as advisor prior to registering for this course. ", "cid": "5816"}}, {"course": {"title": "Directed Studies for Visiting Exchange Students", "course_number": "502", "description": "An assignment of study or project work under the direction of a Faculty member. The specific project is established on the basis of a written proposal that is agreed to by the supervisors at both the host and home institutions. The academic level and the time commitment shall be specified in the proposal. Registration is restricted to international exchange students at Waterloo under an Exchange Agreement with the Faculty of Engineering. Candidates for degrees at the University of Waterloo are not eligible. ", "cid": "5817"}}, {"course": {"title": "Directed Studies for Visiting Exchange Students", "course_number": "503", "description": "An assignment of study or project work under the direction of a Faculty member. The specific project is established on the basis of a written proposal that is agreed to by the supervisors at both the host and home institutions. The academic level and the time commitment shall be specified in the proposal. Registration is restricted to international exchange students at Waterloo under an Exchange Agreement with the Faculty of Engineering. Candidates for degrees at the University of Waterloo are not eligible. ", "cid": "5818"}}]