[{"course": {"title": "Lifespan Approaches to Disease Prevention and Health Promotion", "course_number": "601", "description": "This course examines issues in health and disability from a multidisciplinary lifespan perspective. An integrated approach is taken that considers biological, behavioral, and social factors relevant to health and disability at different ages, and locates issues of prevention, treatment, management, and policy within a broadly-based public health orientation.", "cid": "1724"}}, {"course": {"title": "Health Policy", "course_number": "603", "description": "A critical analysis of health policy formulation, implementation and evluation related to population health initiatives and health care delivery. The course will include discussion of the role of various regional, provincial, and national agencies in health care policy formation. It will examine various health care systems, their funding and how the Canadian healthcare system compares with systems in other countries. Prerequisite: Consent of instructor.", "cid": "10533"}}, {"course": {"title": "Evaluation of Health and Human Service Programs", "course_number": "604", "description": "Program evaluation is the systematic, utilization focused collection of information for both internal planning purposes and external accountability, accreditation requirements. This comprehensive course will cover needs assessment, marketing and implementation, process/delivery and outcome evaluation. Case examples will be used to illustrate methodological, political and ethical challenges. Course assignments involve working with community or institutional programs of the student's choice.", "cid": "1725"}}, {"course": {"title": "Survey Research Methods", "course_number": "605A", "description": "", "cid": "10534"}}, {"course": {"title": "Epidemiological Methods", "course_number": "606", "description": "An investigation of the epidemiology of selected non-infectious diseases with emphasis on the identification of risk factors and on the methodology of epidemiological investigations.", "cid": "1730"}}, {"course": {"title": "Mechanisms of Disease Processes", "course_number": "607", "description": "The focus of the course is on basic physiological and immunological mechanisms involved in major contemporary health problems, including those which are contributed to by behavioural factors.", "cid": "10535"}}, {"course": {"title": "Population Intervention Research for Chronic Disease Prevention", "course_number": "609", "description": "This course introduces concepts, theories and methods pertinent to the conduct of research for population intervention, especially as it relates to chronic disease prevention.  Modules introduce ecological, utilitarian and social justice frameworks, ethical challenges, the importance of integrated knowledge translation and new methodologies for informing the development of population interventions.  Students gain experience writing and critically reviewing grant proposals.", "cid": "10536"}}, {"course": {"title": "Program Development and Service Delivery for the Elderly", "course_number": "610", "description": "The various programs and services, particularly in the non-medical areas, will be discussed. Emphasis will be placed on various programs which are available to the elderly residing in the community, such as home care and homemaking services, various outreach programs, including day hospitals, placement and coordination services, geriatric assessment services, vacation relief beds and foster home programs. The reasons for the changes which have taken place over time will also be investigated. In addition, the cost-effectiveness and methods how such cost-effectiveness can be evaluated will be outlined. As with HSG 703, students in this course will be expected to undertake some field work.", "cid": "1731"}}, {"course": {"title": "The Health Care System", "course_number": "611", "description": "This course examines the environment in which health care systems operate, with a focus on policy formulation legislative frameworks, governance structures, and funding models.  Special attention is given to issues related to electronic health records and health information systems. A focus on international settings with strong track records in health informatics is central to this course.", "cid": "13806"}}, {"course": {"title": "Selected Topics", "course_number": "620", "description": "Fall/Winter/Spring Specific topics may include health behaviour change, decision making in health delivery systems, stress coping strategies, risk assessment and management, psychopharmacology and addiction, nutrition and chronic disease, psychosocial factors in disease, accident and injury control, health assessment, health and the aging person, etc.", "cid": "10537"}}, {"course": {"title": "Health Communications", "course_number": "620Q", "description": "", "cid": "11245"}}, {"course": {"title": "Practicum", "course_number": "641", "description": "Fall/Winter/Spring The supervised practicum is intended to enhance basic or applied research skills. The placement may involve a combination of research design or program development, data collection (using quantitative or qualitative methods), analyses, interpretation, and presentation. A contract stipulating practicum objectives, and work to be completed to meet these objectives must be jointly approved by the student, the practicum supervisor, the academic supervisor, and the practicum coordinator. A written report by the student, together with a letter from the field supervisor, are used by the co-ordinator to evaluate student performance. This course is intended for Masters level students. Graded on a Cr/NCr basis. Prerequisite: consent of instructor.", "cid": "10253"}}, {"course": {"title": "Analysis and Management of Health Information in Aging Populations", "course_number": "651", "description": "The course combines an overview of health policy issues and service delivery with methodological considerations in the analysis of health information from a variety of sources.  The topics to be addressed may include the role of health information in evidence-based practice and policy development; basic concepts of demography and health information management; secondary data analysis; case-mix based funding systems; performance indicators, quality, and accountability in health care; clinical applications of health data; need analysis; cost analysis; international comparisons.", "cid": "13452"}}, {"course": {"title": "Decision Making and Decision Support in Health", "course_number": "652", "description": "One of  the major aims of health informatics is to help health professionals make better decisions.  To this end, diverse models and methods of decision making and decision support have been developed and implements in health care settings.  This course reviews theories, methods, and technologies for aiding the process of making decisions in health care.", "cid": "13454"}}, {"course": {"title": "Knowledge Mobilzation to Serve Society", "course_number": "654", "description": "The goal of knowledge transfer is to make publicly-funded research more useful to policy, practice, and the public.  In this interdisciplinary course students learn how to gather, evaluate, synthesize and summarize scholarly knowledge in ways that meet the needs, timeframes, culture, and realities of stakeholders.  Students will examine strategies and techniques used in a variety of fields to make research findings more useful and usable beyond the academy.  Experts from the areas of policy, media, and practice will offer their perspectives on knowledge transfer and the need for increased research impact.", "cid": "12851"}}, {"course": {"title": "Building Community-University Research Alliances", "course_number": "655", "description": "This interdisciplinary course examines the impediments to, as well as those developments that facilitate, community-university partnerships from historic, cross-cultural, and empirical perspectives.  Community is defined broadly to include local social service organizations, health practitioners, policy makers, and commercial enterprises.  Students develop research alliances relevant to their areas of study, skills, and interests.  Through the development of research alliances students learn how to facilitate the uptake of existing research to increase organizational capacity for sustainability and innovation.", "cid": "12969"}}, {"course": {"title": "Psychopharmacology and Addiction", "course_number": "671", "description": "The objectives of this course are to provide a basic understanding of psychopharmacology and the process of drug addiction. Topics addressed will include: i) basic principles of pharmacology, ii) factors that contribute to individual differences in drug response, iii) mechanisms of drug action on neurotransmission, iv) major neurotransmitter systems of the brain and how these are influenced by psychoactive drugs, and v) theories of addiction, including a consideration of the interaction of biological with behaviour and socio-cultural factors.", "cid": "10230"}}, {"course": {"title": "Advanced Topics", "course_number": "720", "description": "An in-depth analysis of specific topics of interest. Representative topics may include advanced epidemiological and statistical methods for health research, cancer prevention and control, advanced health program evluation, psychoneuroimmunology, addictions, caregiver issues, etc. The form of the study may include a literature review or the planning and execution of and execution of an independent study leading to a mamor paper for possible publication.", "cid": "10539"}}, {"course": {"title": "Advanced Practicum", "course_number": "741", "description": "The supervised research practicum is intended to enhance basic or applied research skills as demonstrated through previous practica, research assistantships or other research experiences.The placement may involve a combination of research design or program development, data collection (using quantitative or qualitative methods), analyses, interpretation and presentationa. A contract stipulating practicum objectives, and work to be completed to meet these objectives must be approved jointly by the student, the practicum supervisor, the academic supervisor, and the practicum co-ordinator. A written report by the student, together with a letter from the field supervisor, are used by the co-ordinator to evaluate student performance.", "cid": "1743"}}]