[{"course": {"title": "Professional Development - Overview", "course_number": "15", "description": "Introduces critical analysis, responsibility, leadership, and communication from an engineering employee's perspective. This course is based on a reflective look at work-term experiences from the viewpoint of a professional engineer. Through the study of specific topics such as ethics and the law, health and safety, the design process, management strategies, risk assessment, self assessment, information literacy and intellectual property, students will be further exposed to professional development skills that complement their academic and practical engineering skills. ", "cid": "11813"}}, {"course": {"title": "Professional Development - Critical Analysis", "course_number": "25", "description": "With an emphasis on critical analysis, this course is based on a reflective look at work-term experiences from the viewpoint of a professional engineer. Through the study of specific topics such as ethics and the law, health and safety, the design process, management strategies, risk assessment, self assessment, information literacy and intellectual property, students will enhance critical analysis skills that complement their academic and practical engineering skills. The themes of responsibility, leadership, and communication will be linked to critical-analysis considerations. ", "cid": "11814"}}, {"course": {"title": "Professional Development - Responsibility", "course_number": "35", "description": "With an emphasis on responsibility, this course is based on a reflective look at work-term experiences from the viewpoint of a professional engineer. Through the study of specific topics such as ethics and the law, health and safety, the design process, management strategies, risk assessment, self assessment, information literacy and intellectual property, students will enhance responsibility perspectives that complement their academic and practical engineering skills. The themes of critical analysis, leadership, and communication will be linked to responsibility considerations. ", "cid": "11815"}}, {"course": {"title": "Professional Development - Leadership", "course_number": "45", "description": "With an emphasis on leadership, this course is based on a reflective look at work-term experiences from the viewpoint of a professional engineer. Through the study of specific topics such as ethics and the law, health and safety, the design process, management strategies, risk assessment, self assessment, information literacy and intellectual property, students will enhance leadership skills that complement their academic and practical engineering skills. The themes of critical analysis, responsibility, and communication will be linked to leadership considerations. ", "cid": "11816"}}, {"course": {"title": "Professional Development - Integration", "course_number": "55", "description": "Integrates critical-analysis, responsibility, leadership, and communication as professional-development skills of the student with a focus on responsible assessment. This course is based on a reflective look at the cumulative work-term experiences of the student from the viewpoint of a professional engineer. Through the study of specific topics such as ethics and the law, health and safety, the design process, management strategies, risk assessment, self assessment, information literacy and intellectual property, students will gain an understanding of the strong and unavoidable link between professional development skills and their academic and practical engineering skills. ", "cid": "11817"}}, {"course": {"title": "Integrating Professional Skills for a Global Workplace", "course_number": "57", "description": "Integrating Professional Skills for a Global Workplace is a substitute for the capstone course (PDENG 55) in the PDEng Programme. The theme of \"understanding one's duty\" is core to all of the PDENG courses, and PDENG 57 revolves around \"Duty to Society\". The course focuses on what is, and should be, the role of engineers in society as advocates for public welfare at the local, national, and global levels; and how one can expand their basic professional development skills to be a better advocate. This course is open only to students in their 4B term who are expected by their department to meet all of their graduation requirements with the exception of PDENG 55 by the end of the Winter 2009 term. ", "cid": "13005"}}]