[{"notes": ["Department Consent Required", "Prereq: Geography and Aviation, Science and Aviation plans"], "description": "This course provides the required Preparatory Ground Instruction to prepare students for the air exercises to be completed during in-aircraft instruction that is conducted as part of the course. Students will complete flight training to the First Solo level and acquire approximately 20 hours of flight time. This course also includes the ground school required to prepare the student to write the Transport Canada Private Pilot Licence - Airplane examination. The course provides a solid base of the knowledge required to be a safe and proficient professional pilot.", "intro": "AVIA 101 FLT 0.75", "id": "Course ID: 013236", "name": "Professional Pilot Program Course I"}, {"notes": ["Department Consent Required", "Prereq: AVIA 101; Geography and Aviation, Science and Aviation plans"], "description": "This course is a continuation of AVIA 101 and provides the required Preparatory Ground Instruction to prepare students for the air exercises to be completed during in-aircraft instruction that is conducted as part of the course. Students will complete flight training to the Private Pilot Licence level and acquire approximately 45 hours of flight time in the semester to total 65 hours of flight time to-date.", "intro": "AVIA 102 FLT 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 013237", "name": "Professional Pilot Program Course II"}, {"notes": ["Department Consent Required", "Prereq: AVIA 102; Geography and Aviation, Science and Aviation plans"], "description": "This course is a continuation of AVIA 102 and provides the required Preparatory Ground Instruction to prepare students for the air exercises to be completed during in-aircraft instruction that is conducted as part of the course. Students will complete flight training required to acquire the Night Rating and acquire additional cross-country Pilot-in-Command time to total approximately 85 hours flight time by the end of the course.", "intro": "AVIA 203 FLT 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 013238", "name": "Professional Pilot Program Course III"}, {"notes": ["Department Consent Required", "Prereq: AVIA 203; Geography and Aviation, Science and Aviation plans"], "description": "This course continues from AVIA 203 and provides the required Preparatory Ground Instruction to prepare students for the air exercises to be completed during in-aircraft instruction that is conducted as part of the course. Students will complete a dual cross border flight to the United States as well as a dual flight into high density controlled airspace (CYYZ). Students also complete a check-out in a complex aircraft and acquire additional cross-country pilot-in-command time. Students will have acquired approximately 110 hours total flight time by the end of the course. This course also includes the ground school required to prepare the student to write the Transport Canada Commercial Pilot Licence - Airplane examination.", "intro": "AVIA 204 FLT 0.75", "id": "Course ID: 013239", "name": "Professional Pilot Program Course IV"}, {"notes": ["Department Consent Required", "Prereq: AVIA 204; Geography and Aviation, Science and Aviation plans"], "description": "This course continues from AVIA 204 and provides the required Preparatory Ground Instruction to prepare students for the air exercises to be completed during in-aircraft instruction that is conducted as part of the course. Students will complete a solo cross border flight to the United States as well as a dual flight into a grass field. Students also complete a check-out in a glass cockpit aircraft and work on acquiring cross-country Pilot-in-Command time. Preparation for the Commercial Pilot Flight Test is started during this course as well. The student will have acquired approximately 155 hours total flight time by the end of the course.", "intro": "AVIA 205 FLT 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 014522", "name": "Professional Pilot Program Course V"}, {"notes": ["Department Consent Required", "Prereq: AVIA 205; Geography and Aviation, Science and Aviation plans"], "description": "This course continues from AVIA 205 and provides the required Preparatory Ground Instruction to prepare students for the air exercises to be completed during in-aircraft instruction that is conducted as part of the course. Students will complete the Commercial Pilot Flight Test early in the course and then complete the training for the Multi-Engine Class Rating. Students will have acquired approximately 175 hours total flight time by the end of the course. This course also includes ground school to prepare students to write the Transport Canada Instrument Rating examination.", "intro": "AVIA 306 FLT 0.75", "id": "Course ID: 013242", "name": "Professional Pilot Program Course VI"}, {"notes": ["Department Consent Required", "Prereq: AVIA 306; Geography and Aviation, Science and Aviation plans"], "description": "This course continues from AVIA 306 and focuses on exercises that apply knowledge of various considerations and procedures for flight in instrument meteorological conditions. Pairs of students will function as two-person flight crews during simulated IFR flights. Scenarios will enable students to recognize, avoid or manage situations that lead to incidents. Also included is a tour of the Toronto Area Control Centre. The flight portion focuses on acquiring cross-country Pilot-in-Command time to meet the requirements for the Instrument Rating. This course also includes ground school in preparation for students to write the Transport Canada IATRA examination and training in wilderness survival and First Aid skills.", "intro": "AVIA 307 FLT 0.75", "id": "Course ID: 014523", "name": "Professional Pilot Program Course VII"}, {"notes": ["Prereq: Level at least 2A Science and Aviation or Geography and Aviation students only"], "description": "A case study-influenced course emphasizing the need for pilots to recognize and improve interpersonal skills for problem solving and conflict management. Components introduce Crew Resource Management (CRM), the human component of the human-technology interface, and the cumulative act effect.", "intro": "AVIA 310 LAB,LEC 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 013302", "name": "Human Factors in Aviation"}, {"notes": ["Department Consent Required", "Prereq: AVIA 307; Geography and Aviation, Science and Aviation plans"], "description": "This course continues from AVIA 307 and completes the instruction toward the Group 1 Instrument Rating. Training will be conducted using a combination of Simulator, Single Engine aircraft and Multi-engine aircraft. Flight in instrument meteorological conditions will be conducted whenever practicable. Any outstanding flight time requirements for the issue of the Commercial Pilot Licence will also be completed. This course completes the flight training.", "intro": "AVIA 408 FLT 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 014524", "name": "Professional Pilot Program Course VIII"}, {"notes": ["Department Consent Required", "Prereq: Honours Aviation students"], "description": "This course allows for additions to the program on a short term basis and for the development of future permanent courses.", "intro": "AVIA 474 LEC,SEM,TUT 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 014107", "name": "Special Topics in Aviation"}, {"notes": ["Department Consent Required", "Prereq: Level at least 3A Honours Aviation"], "description": "Individual study of special topics not covered in other aviation courses. Students will not be given permission to register for this course until a faculty member has agreed to supervise the study and the student has developed a brief outline of study to be approved by the Director of Aviation.", "intro": "AVIA 475 RDG 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 014108", "name": "Independent Studies of Selected Topics"}]