[{"notes": ["[Note: Course will be graded on a CR/NCR basis.]", "Prereq: One of CHE 100, ENVE 100, CIVE 125, GENE 167, ME 100, MTE 100, SYDE 161 or SE 101 and enrolled in Engineering or Software Engineering.", "Coreq: COOP 1"], "description": "Introduces critical analysis, responsibility, leadership, and communication from an engineering employee's perspective. This course is based on a reflective look at work-term experiences from the viewpoint of a professional engineer. Through the study of specific topics such as ethics and the law, health and safety, the design process, management strategies, risk assessment, self assessment, information literacy and intellectual property, students will be further exposed to professional development skills that complement their academic and practical engineering skills. ", "intro": "PDENG 15 PRA,RDG 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 011813", "name": "Professional Development - Overview"}, {"notes": ["[Note: Course will be graded on a CR/NCR basis.]", "Prereq: PDENG 15, and enrolled in Engineering or Software Engineering.", "Coreq: COOP 2"], "description": "With an emphasis on critical analysis, this course is based on a reflective look at work-term experiences from the viewpoint of a professional engineer. Through the study of specific topics such as ethics and the law, health and safety, the design process, management strategies, risk assessment, self assessment, information literacy and intellectual property, students will enhance critical analysis skills that complement their academic and practical engineering skills. The themes of responsibility, leadership, and communication will be linked to critical-analysis considerations. ", "intro": "PDENG 25 PRA,RDG 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 011814", "name": "Professional Development - Critical Analysis"}, {"notes": ["[Note: Course will be graded on a CR/NCR basis.]", "Prereq: PDENG 25 and enrolled in Engineering or Software Engineering.", "Coreq: COOP 3"], "description": "With an emphasis on responsibility, this course is based on a reflective look at work-term experiences from the viewpoint of a professional engineer. Through the study of specific topics such as ethics and the law, health and safety, the design process, management strategies, risk assessment, self assessment, information literacy and intellectual property, students will enhance responsibility perspectives that complement their academic and practical engineering skills. The themes of critical analysis, leadership, and communication will be linked to responsibility considerations. ", "intro": "PDENG 35 PRA,RDG 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 011815", "name": "Professional Development - Responsibility"}, {"notes": ["[Note: Course will be graded on a CR/NCR basis.]", "Prereq: PDENG 35, and enrolled in Engineering or Software Engineering.", "Coreq: COOP 4"], "description": "With an emphasis on leadership, this course is based on a reflective look at work-term experiences from the viewpoint of a professional engineer. Through the study of specific topics such as ethics and the law, health and safety, the design process, management strategies, risk assessment, self assessment, information literacy and intellectual property, students will enhance leadership skills that complement their academic and practical engineering skills. The themes of critical analysis, responsibility, and communication will be linked to leadership considerations. ", "intro": "PDENG 45 PRA,RDG 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 011816", "name": "Professional Development - Leadership"}, {"notes": ["[Note: Course will be graded on a CR/NCR basis.]", "Prereq: PDENG 45, and enrolled in Engineering or Software Engineering.", "Coreq: COOP 5"], "description": "Integrates critical-analysis, responsibility, leadership, and communication as professional-development skills of the student with a focus on responsible assessment. This course is based on a reflective look at the cumulative work-term experiences of the student from the viewpoint of a professional engineer. Through the study of specific topics such as ethics and the law, health and safety, the design process, management strategies, risk assessment, self assessment, information literacy and intellectual property, students will gain an understanding of the strong and unavoidable link between professional development skills and their academic and practical engineering skills. ", "intro": "PDENG 55 PRA,RDG 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 011817", "name": "Professional Development - Integration"}]