[{"notes": ["Prereq: Global Business and Digital Arts students only.", "Coreq: GBDA 103.", "Antireq: DAC 201/ENGL 203"], "description": "This course introduces students to the theory, principles, and practice of digital media design as they apply to a wide variety of communication contexts, including the design of instructional, informational, and promotional materials. Specifically, this course will focus on the integration of digital images, texts, and basic animation into web-based projects that meet the needs of a variety of audiences.", "intro": "GBDA 101 LAB,LEC 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 013255", "name": "Digital Media Design and Production"}, {"notes": ["Prereq: Global Business and Digital Arts students only."], "description": "This course will introduce students to an understanding of the challenges and opportunities of doing business in a global context, with a particular emphasis on communicating across cultures. Managers working in a cross-cultural setting need to be able to interpret efficiently and effectively the basic orientation and practices of different cultures in which they work and become skilful in interviewing, negotiating, managing conflict, and facilitating teamwork across cultural divides. The course will introduce frameworks for interpreting cultures and particular skill training in cross-cultural communication.", "intro": "GBDA 102 LAB,LEC 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 013256", "name": "International Business and Cross-Cultural Management"}, {"notes": ["Prereq: Global Business and Digital Arts students only.", "Coreq: GBDA 101"], "description": "In this course, students will learn the basic principles and practices of user experience design and testing. Students will learn how to plan, implement, and interpret tests conducted on digital design applications, focusing both on functionality and on the quality of the user's interaction with these technologies.", "intro": "GBDA 103 LAB,LEC 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 014117", "name": "User Experience Design"}, {"notes": ["Prereq: GBDA 101; Level at least 2A Global Business and Digital Arts students.", "Antireq: DAC 202/ENGL 204."], "description": "This course emphasizes the pre-production fundamentals of multimedia design on a project basis. Working in small groups, students will produce treatments, storyboards, and production plans for a variety of short video and animation projects. Additionally, students will learn a theoretical vocabulary to analyse, critique, evaluate, and communicate about their projects. This course focuses on the social nature of storytelling with digital video and animation.", "intro": "GBDA 201 PRJ 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 013257", "name": "Digital Media Project 1"}, {"notes": ["Prereq: GBDA 201; Level at least 2A Global Business and Digital Arts students.", "Antireq: DAC 202/ENGL 204"], "description": "This course builds on the knowledge of pre-production and multimedia design developed in GBDA 201 and will focus on the design principles guiding digital animation production, video capture, editing time-based media, and post-production for digital delivery. An emphasis will be placed on the ability to communicate culturally-situated ideas through visual storytelling practices that draw on the dynamics of digital media.", "intro": "GBDA 202 PRJ 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 013258", "name": "Digital Media Project 2"}, {"notes": ["Prereq: LEVGE 2A Global Business and Digital Arts students"], "description": "This course provides students with an historical overview of various digital technologies and their impact on society and the human condition. Students will be introduced to research methods and theoretical concepts from media theory and cultural studies which will enable them to think, speak, and write critically about technology in an historical and global context.", "intro": "GBDA 203 LEC 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 013259", "name": "Introduction to Digital Culture"}, {"notes": ["Prereq: Level at least 2A Global Business and Digital Arts students"], "description": "This course draws attention to the fundamental principles of strategic planning while providing participants with an understanding of the necessary people skills to effectively lead and manage. Students will be able to put the theory to practice. These include active listening, conflict management, facilitation, team-building, non-routine problem solving in group settings, feedback and assertiveness training, presentation skills, and strategic simulations and cases.", "intro": "GBDA 204 LAB,SEM 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 013273", "name": "Applied Leadership and Strategy in Enterprise"}, {"notes": ["Prereq: Level at least 2A Global Business and Digital Arts students"], "description": "This course will train students to understand the philosophy and logic of social science research design and the role of methods in that design. The principles of qualitative (field work and unstructured interviews), quantitative (survey research and data analysis), experimental research, and action research will be introduced in relation to the problem to be analyzed and the stage of theory construction or testing.", "intro": "GBDA 205 LAB,LEC 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 013260", "name": "Research Methods"}, {"notes": ["Prereq: LEVGE 2A Global Business and Digital Arts students"], "description": "Students will initially review several of the standard models for ethical problem solving (associated with classical, historical, and contemporary philosophy) and then take up, analyse, and develop action strategies with respect to a series of case studies, focused on contemporary global ethical issues. They will work both individually and in groups, not only articulating and defending their own positions, but taking account of viable alternatives. Topics considered will include personal, social, environmental, medical, political, and economic issues all viewed from a global perspective.", "intro": "GBDA 206 LAB,SEM 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 013274", "name": "Issues in Contemporary Global Ethics"}, {"notes": ["[Note: Offered at Stratford campus.]", "Prereq: GBDA 202; Level at least 3A Global Business and Digital Arts students"], "description": "In this course students will study how digital media has contributed to globalization, and conversely, how globalization impacts the use of digital technologies and the development of digital cultures. Students will work with global business consultants and product developers to outline a digital media product or service for a non-Canadian community. ", "intro": "GBDA 301 PRJ 1.00", "id": "Course ID: 013261", "name": "Global Digital Project 1"}, {"notes": ["[Note: Offered at Stratford campus.]", "Prereq: GBDA 301; Level at least 3A Global Business and Digital Arts students"], "description": "In this course students will engage in advanced study of digital culture and globalization. They will work with global business consultants and product developers to prepare and present a complete digital media business plan designed for a non-Canadian community. ", "intro": "GBDA 302 PRJ 1.00", "id": "Course ID: 013262", "name": "Global Digital Project 2"}, {"notes": ["[Note: Offered at Stratford campus.]", "Prereq: Level at least 3A Global Business and Digital Arts students"], "description": "This course focuses on a key challenge of the 21st century: how do individuals contribute to social innovations, new ways of doing and seeing, which provide breakthrough solutions to intractable problems? The course will review the literature both on social change and transformation and on private sector innovation. Students will be challenged to draw from these two disparate literatures to form working hypotheses for initiating, building, and disseminating social innovation. ", "intro": "GBDA 303 LAB,SEM 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 013263", "name": "Innovation, Project and Change Management"}, {"notes": ["[Note: Offered at Stratford campus.]", "Prereq: Level at least 3A Global Business and Digital Arts students"], "description": "Global business and digital media both represent complex environments where innovation and design needs to address whole system perspectives and engage stakeholders from multiple disciplines and perspectives. Whole system methodologies such as future search, appreciative inquiry, and scenario planning offer methodologies for the integration of lay and expert judgements and data. This course will introduce students to the perspectives and methodologies that allow them to work more easily across multiple cultures, disciplines, and markets. We will explore how different disciplines/organizational functions embed or code data, how they construct knowledge, and what tools we employ to bridge or reintegrate knowledge sets in the interests of resolving \"whole system\" problems. ", "intro": "GBDA 304 LAB,SEM 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 013264", "name": "Epistemology and Whole System Change"}, {"notes": ["[Note: Offered at Stratford campus.]", "Prereq: Level at least 3A Global Business and Digital Arts students"], "description": "This course will look at the processes of industrialization and economic development and the relation of these processes to the present state of global economic interconnectedness. The course will examine how these processes affect the allocation and distribution of economic opportunities, benefits, risks, etc., looking especially at their impact on access to, and utilization of, energy, water, food, science, modern technology, and communication systems. The course will examine the inter-relationship between these economic and environmental changes and the changing character of local, national, and global political and civil institutions. While examining these larger themes, the course will be organized around a series of case studies, for which students will be called upon to analyze and develop practical responses. ", "intro": "GBDA 305 LAB,SEM 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 013265", "name": "Global Development and Business"}, {"notes": ["[Note: Offered at Stratford campus.]", "Prereq: Level at least 3A Global Business and Digital Arts students"], "description": "This course will serve as an introduction to a variety of contemporary ethical systems, including those associated with major religious traditions, philosophical systems, political ideologies, and economic beliefs. Students will review primary expressions of these diverse ethics as well as secondary accounts of them. Students will also examine several contemporary efforts to arrive at common ethical frames of reference. The course will especially focus on current ethical issues associated with global development and business. ", "intro": "GBDA 306 LAB,SEM 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 013266", "name": "Comparative Ethics in a Globalized World"}, {"notes": ["[Note: Offered at Stratford campus.]", "Prereq: Level at least 3A Global Business and Digital Arts students"], "description": "This workshop, closely intertwined with GBDA 301, will focus on those project management skills which use, as a foundation, the basic business skills introduced in GBDA 203. Appropriate business skills will be introduced as they relate to the stages and challenges of project development in GBDA 301. These include project design, networking, resource mobilization, management up-down, institutional entrepreneurship, coalition building, and advanced communication skills. ", "intro": "GBDA 307 WSP 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 013267", "name": "Workshop in Digital Media, Marketing and Management 1"}, {"notes": ["[Note: Offered at Stratford campus.]", "Prereq: Level at least 3A Global Business and Digital Arts students"], "description": "This workshop, closely intertwined with GBDA 302, will focus on those project management skills which use, as a foundation, the basic business skills introduced in GBDA 203. Appropriate business skills will be introduced as they relate to the stages and challenges of project development in GBDA 302. These include, for example, project design, networking, resource mobilization, management up-down, institutional entrepreneuship, coalition building, and advanced communication skills. ", "intro": "GBDA 308 WSP 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 013268", "name": "Workshop in Digital Media, Marketing and Management 2"}, {"notes": ["[Note: Offered at Stratford campus.]", "Prereq: GBDA 302; Level at least 4A Global Business and Digital Arts students"], "description": "In this course students will study how digital products and services are modified and/or repurposed to suit the needs of a community outside of their origin. Students will work with global business consultants to identify and outline a cross-cultural digital business project with a local or global community. ", "intro": "GBDA 401 PRJ 2.00", "id": "Course ID: 013269", "name": "Cross-Cultural Digital Business 1"}, {"notes": ["[Note: Offered at Stratford campus.]", "Prereq: GBDA 401; Level at least 4A Global Business and Digital Arts students"], "description": "In this course students will engage in advanced study of how to adapt digital products and services to suit specific cultures or communities. They will work with global business consultants and a community client to develop and present a business plan that involves adapting an existing technology or digital service for a country or region outside its origin. ", "intro": "GBDA 402 PRJ 2.00", "id": "Course ID: 013270", "name": "Cross-Cultural Digital Business 2"}, {"notes": ["[Note: Offered at Stratford campus.]", "Prereq: Level at least 4A Global Business and Digital Arts students", "Also offered Online"], "description": "This workshop, closely intertwined with GBDA 401, will focus on those project management skills which use, as a foundation, the basic business skills introduced in GBDA 203. Appropriate business skills will be introduced as they relate to the stages and challenges of project development in GBDA 401. These include, for example, project design, networking, resource mobilization, management up-down, institutional entrepreneurship, coalition building, and advanced communication skills. ", "intro": "GBDA 403 WSP 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 013271", "name": "Workshop in Digital Media, Marketing and Management 3"}, {"notes": ["[Note: Offered at Stratford campus.]", "Prereq: Level at least 4A Global Business and Digital Arts students"], "description": "This workshop, closely intertwined with GBDA 402, will focus on those project management skills which use, as a foundation, the basic business skills introduced in GBDA 203. Appropriate business skills will be introduced as they relate to the stages and challenges of project development in GBDA 402. These include, for example, project design, networking, resource mobilization, management up-down, institutional entrepreneurship, coalition building, and advanced communication skills. ", "intro": "GBDA 404 WSP 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 013272", "name": "Workshop in Digital Media, Marketing and Management 4"}]