[{"notes": ["Department Consent Required"], "description": "Courses taken at foreign universities by University of Waterloo architecture students while enrolled in an international exchange institution, and reserved for courses without equivalents at the University of Waterloo. These courses are treated as technical electives in the student's program. Such courses are reported on the student's transcript with their original titles in English showing as the topic. The grades for these courses will be either CR or NCR.", "intro": "GENE 21A LEC 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 012565", "name": "Topics for Technical Courses Taken on Exchange by Architecture Students"}, {"notes": ["Department Consent Required"], "description": "Courses taken at foreign universities by University of Waterloo engineering students while enrolled in an international exchange institution, and reserved for courses without equivalents at the University of Waterloo. These courses are treated as technical electives in the student's program. Such courses are reported on the student's transcript with their original titles in English showing as the topic. The grades for these courses will be either CR or NCR.", "intro": "GENE 21C LEC 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 011799", "name": "Topics for Technical Courses Taken on Exchange by Chemical Engineering Students"}, {"notes": ["Department Consent Required"], "description": "Courses taken at foreign universities by University of Waterloo engineering students while enrolled in an international exchange institution, and reserved for courses without equivalents at the University of Waterloo. These courses are treated as technical electives in the student's program. Such courses are reported on the student's transcript with their original titles in English showing as the topic. The grades for these courses will be either CR or NCR.", "intro": "GENE 21D LEC 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 011807", "name": "Topics for Technical Courses Taken on Exchange by Systems Design Engineering Students"}, {"notes": ["Department Consent Required"], "description": "Courses taken at foreign universities by University of Waterloo engineering students while enrolled in an international exchange institution, and reserved for courses without equivalents at the University of Waterloo. These courses are treated as technical electives in the student's program. Such courses are reported on the student's transcript with their original titles in English showing as the topic. The grades for these courses will be either CR or NCR.", "intro": "GENE 21E LEC 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 011802", "name": "Topics for Technical Courses Taken on Exchange by Electrical Engineering Students"}, {"notes": ["Department Consent Required"], "description": "Courses taken at foreign universities by University of Waterloo engineering students while enrolled in an international exchange institution, and reserved for courses without equivalents at the University of Waterloo. These courses are treated as technical electives in the student's program. Such courses are reported on the student's transcript with their original titles in English showing as the topic. The grades for these courses will be either CR or NCR.", "intro": "GENE 21I LEC 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 011803", "name": "Topics for Technical Courses Taken on Exchange by Environmental Engineering Students"}, {"notes": ["Department Consent Required"], "description": "Courses taken at foreign universities by University of Waterloo engineering students while enrolled in an international exchange institution, and reserved for courses without equivalents at the University of Waterloo. These courses are treated as technical electives in the student's program. Such courses are reported on the student's transcript with their original titles in English showing as the topic. The grades for these courses will be either CR or NCR.", "intro": "GENE 21K LEC 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 011800", "name": "Topics for Technical Courses Taken on Exchange by Civil Engineering Students"}, {"notes": ["Department Consent Required"], "description": "Courses taken at foreign universities by University of Waterloo engineering students while enrolled in an international exchange institution, and reserved for courses without equivalents at the University of Waterloo. These courses are treated as technical electives in the student's program. Such courses are reported on the student's transcript with their original titles in English showing as the topic. The grades for these courses will be either CR or NCR.", "intro": "GENE 21L LEC 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 011804", "name": "Topics for Technical Courses Taken on Exchange by Geological Engineering Students"}, {"notes": ["Department Consent Required"], "description": "Courses taken at foreign universities by University of Waterloo engineering students while enrolled in an international exchange institution, and reserved for courses without equivalents at the University of Waterloo. These courses are treated as technical electives in the student's program. Such courses are reported on the student's transcript with their original titles in English showing as the topic. The grades for these courses will be either CR or NCR.", "intro": "GENE 21M LEC 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 011805", "name": "Topics for Technical Courses Taken on Exchange by Mechanical Engineering Students"}, {"notes": ["Department Consent Required"], "description": "Courses taken at foreign universities by University of Waterloo engineering students while enrolled in an international exchange institution, and reserved for courses without equivalents at the University of Waterloo. These courses are treated as technical electives in the student's program. Such courses are reported on the student's transcript with their original titles in English showing as the topic. The grades for these courses will be either CR or NCR.", "intro": "GENE 21Q LEC 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 011801", "name": "Topics for Technical Courses Taken on Exchange by Computer Engineering Students"}, {"notes": ["Department Consent Required"], "description": "Courses taken at foreign universities by University of Waterloo engineering students while enrolled in an international exchange institution, and reserved for courses without equivalents at the University of Waterloo. These courses are treated as technical electives in the student's program. Such courses are reported on the student's transcript with their original titles in English showing as the topic. The grades for these courses will be either CR or NCR.", "intro": "GENE 21S LEC 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 011808", "name": "Topics for Technical Courses Taken on Exchange by Software Engineering Students"}, {"notes": ["Department Consent Required"], "description": "Courses taken at foreign universities by University of Waterloo engineering students while enrolled in an international exchange institution, and reserved for courses without equivalents at the University of Waterloo. These courses are treated as technical electives in the student's program. Such courses are reported on the student's transcript with their original titles in English showing as the topic. The grades for these courses will be either CR or NCR.", "intro": "GENE 21T LEC 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 011806", "name": "Topics for Technical Courses Taken on Exchange by Mechatronics Engineering Students"}, {"notes": ["Department Consent Required"], "description": "Courses taken at foreign universities by University of Waterloo engineering students while enrolled in an international exchange institution, and reserved for courses without equivalents at the University of Waterloo. These courses are treated as list A complementary studies electives in the student's program. Such courses are reported on the student's transcript with their original titles in English showing as the topic. The grades for these courses will be either CR or NCR.", "intro": "GENE 22A LEC 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 011809", "name": "Topics for List A Complementary Studies Courses Taken on Exchange by Engineering Students"}, {"notes": ["Department Consent Required"], "description": "Courses taken at foreign universities by University of Waterloo engineering students while enrolled in an international exchange institution, and reserved for courses without equivalents at the University of Waterloo. These courses are treated as list B complementary studies electives in the student's program. Such courses are reported on the student's transcript with their original titles in English showing as the topic. The grades for these courses will be either CR or NCR.", "intro": "GENE 22B LEC 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 011810", "name": "Topics for List B Complementary Studies Courses Taken on Exchange by Engineering Students"}, {"notes": ["Department Consent Required"], "description": "Courses taken at foreign universities by University of Waterloo engineering students while enrolled in an international exchange institution, and reserved for courses without equivalents at the University of Waterloo. These courses are treated as list C complementary studies electives in the student's program. Such courses are reported on the student's transcript with their original titles in English showing as the topic. The grades for these courses will be either CR or NCR.", "intro": "GENE 22C LEC 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 011811", "name": "Topics for List C Complementary Studies Courses Taken on Exchange by Engineering Students"}, {"notes": ["Department Consent Required"], "description": "Courses taken at foreign universities by University of Waterloo engineering students while enrolled in an international exchange institution, and reserved for courses without equivalents at the University of Waterloo. These courses are treated as list D complementary studies electives in the student's program. Such courses are reported on the student's transcript with their original titles in English showing as the topic. The grades for these courses will be either CR or NCR.", "intro": "GENE 22D LEC 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 011812", "name": "Topics for List D Complementary Studies Courses Taken on Exchange by Engineering Students"}, {"notes": ["Department Consent Required"], "description": "Students may be assigned to a Problems Seminar by the Director or Associate Director of First-Year Engineering or Software Engineering according to their performance during the term. [Offered: F,W,S]", "intro": "GENE 119 SEM 0.00", "id": "Course ID: 009263", "name": "Problems Seminar"}, {"notes": ["Prereq: 1A Mechatronics Engineering or level at least 1B Management Engineering or Mechanical Engineering", "Antireq: CHE 121, CIVE 121, ECE 150, SYDE 121"], "description": "Introduction to electronic digital computers, hardware and software organization, examples of efficient numerical algorithms for basic scientific computations. [Offered: F,W,S]", "intro": "GENE 121 LEC,TUT 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 005779", "name": "Digital Computation"}, {"notes": ["[Note: Normally labs are held alternate weeks. Offered: W,S]", "Prereq: Level at least 1B Chemical, Civil, Environmental, Geological, Management or Mechanical Engineering"], "description": "Analysis of linear circuits: Voltage, current, resistance, capacitance, inductance, voltage source, current source, dependent sources, Ohm's Law, Kirchoff's Law, nodal analysis, mesh analysis, Thevinin/Norton equivalents, operational amplifier circuits, time response, sinusoidal steady-state response. Introduction to diodes with applications. ", "intro": "GENE 123 LAB,LEC,TUT 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 005780", "name": "Electrical Engineering"}, {"notes": ["Department Consent Required"], "description": "Various courses dealing with selected topics related to success in Waterloo Engineering. These courses will be offered as needed.", "intro": "GENE 199 LAB,LEC,TUT 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 013772", "name": "Special Topics in First Year Engineering"}, {"notes": ["Department Consent Required"], "description": "Various courses dealing with selected topics of particular interest to second year engineering students. These courses will be offered as resources are available and the material is needed.", "intro": "GENE 299 LEC,TUT 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 013773", "name": "Special Topics in Second Year Engineering"}, {"notes": ["[Note: Permission of the Associate Chair of the Department in which the student is registered is required. Offered: W,S]", "Department Consent Required"], "description": "This course is provided to allow enrichment for students in Engineering who have fulfilled the requirements of one or more of the courses in the 3A or 3B term by means of passing a course or courses taken during one or more work terms. The course comprises a special project pursued under the direction of a faculty member, normally in the department of the student's program. ", "intro": "GENE 301 DIS 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 005786", "name": "Special Directed Studies"}, {"notes": ["[Note: Permission of the Associate Chair of the Department in which the student is registered is required. Offered: F,W]", "Department Consent Required"], "description": "This course is provided to allow enrichment for students in Engineering who have fulfilled the requirements of one or more of the courses in the 3A or 3B term by means of passing a course or courses taken during one or more work terms. The course comprises a special project pursued under the direction of a faculty member, normally in the department of the student's program. ", "intro": "GENE 302 DIS 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 005787", "name": "Special Directed Studies"}, {"notes": ["Department Consent Required"], "description": "Engineering students register for this course for credit towards the Designated Faculty Option in International Studies in Engineering upon return from study or work terms abroad. Credit will be assessed on the basis of a written report and individual interviews. The report may include technical, non-technical, and professional aspects of the foreign residence experience. It may discuss socio-economic aspects of life in the foreign country, and it may compare and contrast conditions in the country or countries involved in the student's international experiences, or trace the social or political histories of those countries. In all cases the report must include materials addressed to the needs of other students considering a similar experience. The instructor for this course is the Option Co-ordinator. Restricted to students who intend to complete the option in International Studies in Engineering. [Offered: F,W,S]", "intro": "GENE 303 DIS 0.13", "id": "Course ID: 005788", "name": "International Studies In Engineering"}, {"notes": ["[Note: Permission of the Associate Chair of the Department in which the student is registered is required. Offered: F,W,S]", "Department Consent Required"], "description": "This course is provided for students who, through academic studies during international exchange programs or other university related scholarly activities, wish to request a course credit for this work. Students wishing to claim this credit must show evidence of university level academic activity not otherwise claimed for credit. ", "intro": "GENE 315 DIS 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 005789", "name": "Special Directed Non-Technical Studies"}, {"notes": ["Department Consent Required"], "description": "Waterloo students studying abroad for academic transfer credits under an Engineering Exchange Program during a Fall term register at Waterloo under GENE 395. [Offered: F]", "intro": "GENE 395 LEC 2.50", "id": "Course ID: 010162", "name": "Engineering Study Abroad"}, {"notes": ["Department Consent Required"], "description": "Waterloo students studying abroad for academic transfer credits under an Engineering Exchange Program during a Winter term register at Waterloo under GENE 396. [Offered: W]", "intro": "GENE 396 LEC 2.50", "id": "Course ID: 010163", "name": "Engineering Study Abroad"}, {"notes": ["Department Consent Required"], "description": "Waterloo students studying abroad for academic transfer credits under an Engineering Exchange Program during a Spring term register at Waterloo under GENE 397. [Offered: S]", "intro": "GENE 397 LEC 2.50", "id": "Course ID: 010022", "name": "Engineering Study Abroad"}, {"notes": ["Department Consent Required"], "description": "Various courses dealing with selected topics of particular interest to third year engineering students. These courses will be offered as resources are available and the material is needed.", "intro": "GENE 399 LEC,TUT 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 013774", "name": "Special Topics in Third Year Engineering"}, {"notes": ["[Note: Permission of the Associate Chair of the Department in which the student is registered is required. Offered: F,S]", "Department Consent Required"], "description": "This course is provided to allow enrichment for students in Engineering who have fulfilled the requirements of one or more of the courses in the 4A or 4B term by means of passing a course or courses taken during one or more work terms. The course comprises a special project pursued under the direction of a faculty member, normally in the department of the student's program. ", "intro": "GENE 401 PRJ 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 005807", "name": "Special Directed Studies"}, {"notes": ["[Note: Permission of the Associate Chair of the Department in which the student is registered is required. Offered: W]", "Department Consent Required"], "description": "This course is provided to allow enrichment for students in Engineering who have fulfilled the requirements of one or more of the courses in the 4A or 4B term by means of passing a course or courses taken during one or more work terms. The course comprises a special project pursued under the direction of a faculty member, normally in the department of the student's program. ", "intro": "GENE 402 PRJ 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 005809", "name": "Special Directed Studies"}, {"notes": ["[Note: Permission of the instructor is required]", "Instructor Consent Required", "Prereq: Level at least 4A Engineering"], "description": "This is the first course in a two-course sequence where students from more than one engineering program work together to solve an interdisciplinary engineering problem. In the course they will formulate and communicate an interdisciplinary engineering problem or opportunity; develop a feasible design project proposal and plan; generate feasible solutions that address the formulated problem; evaluate alternatives and identify preferred solution; address safety, regulatory, sustainability and professional ethics requirements, as appropriate; effectively manage design project technical and non-technical risks using project management tools and techniques; deliver a report and/or a presentation that summarizes the work completed; work effectively as an interdisciplinary team member and/or team leader. ", "intro": "GENE 403 LEC,PRJ 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 014282", "name": "Interdisciplinary Design Project 1"}, {"notes": ["Prereq: Level at least 3A (Chemical, Computer, Electrical or Software or Systems Design Engineering) or Computer Science Software Engineering Option students only.", "Antireq: AFM 231, BUS 231W, CIVE 491, COMM 231/MTHEL 100, ECE 290, ENVS 201, ME 401"], "description": "Background (Charter of Rights and Freedoms), Contracts, Torts (Negligent Malpractice), Forms of Carrying on Business, Intellectual Property (Patents, Trade Marks, Copyrights and Industrial Designs), Professional Practice (Professional Engineers Act, Professional Misconduct and Sexual Harassment), Alternate Dispute Resolution, Labour Relations and Employment Law, Environmental Law. [Offered: W]", "intro": "GENE 411 LEC 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 005810", "name": "Engineering Law and Ethics"}, {"notes": ["Prereq: Level at least 2A Engineering students.", "(Cross-listed with PHIL 315)"], "description": "An analysis from the standpoint of philosophical ethics of moral issues arising in professional engineering practice. Issues include the social responsibility of engineers, conflict of interest and obligation, morally acceptable levels of risk, and moral implications of technology.", "intro": "GENE 412 LEC 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 005811", "name": "Ethics and The Engineering Profession"}, {"notes": ["[Note: Permission of the Associate Chair of the Department in which the student is registered is required. Offered: F,W,S]", "Department Consent Required"], "description": "This course is provided for students who, through academic studies during international exchange programs or other university related scholarly activities, wish to request a course credit for this work. Students wishing to claim this credit must show evidence of university level academic activity not otherwise claimed for credit. ", "intro": "GENE 415 DIS 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 005812", "name": "Special Directed Non-Technical Studies"}, {"notes": ["Department Consent Required"], "description": "Various courses dealing with selected topics of particular interest to fourth year engineering students. These courses will be offered as resources are available and the material is needed.", "intro": "GENE 499 LEC,TUT 0.50", "id": "Course ID: 013775", "name": "Special Topics in Fourth Year Engineering"}, {"notes": ["[Note: A student must arrange with a Waterloo faculty member to serve as advisor prior to registering for this course. Offered: F]", "Prereq: Engineering exchange students only"], "description": "An assignment of study or project work under the direction of a Faculty member. The specific project is established on the basis of a written proposal that is agreed to by the supervisors at both the host and home institutions. The academic level and the time commitment shall be specified in the proposal. Registration is restricted to international exchange students at Waterloo under an Exchange Agreement with the Faculty of Engineering. Candidates for degrees at the University of Waterloo are not eligible. A student must arrange with a Waterloo Faculty member to serve as advisor prior to registering for this course. ", "intro": "GENE 501 PRJ 2.50", "id": "Course ID: 005816", "name": "Directed Studies for Visiting Exchange Students"}, {"notes": ["[Note: A student must arrange with a Waterloo faculty member to serve as advisor prior to registering for this course. Offered: W]", "Prereq: Engineering exchange students only"], "description": "An assignment of study or project work under the direction of a Faculty member. The specific project is established on the basis of a written proposal that is agreed to by the supervisors at both the host and home institutions. The academic level and the time commitment shall be specified in the proposal. Registration is restricted to international exchange students at Waterloo under an Exchange Agreement with the Faculty of Engineering. Candidates for degrees at the University of Waterloo are not eligible. ", "intro": "GENE 502 PRJ 2.50", "id": "Course ID: 005817", "name": "Directed Studies for Visiting Exchange Students"}, {"notes": ["[Note: A student must arrange with a Waterloo faculty member to serve as advisor prior to registering for this course. Offered: S]", "Prereq: Engineering exchange students only"], "description": "An assignment of study or project work under the direction of a Faculty member. The specific project is established on the basis of a written proposal that is agreed to by the supervisors at both the host and home institutions. The academic level and the time commitment shall be specified in the proposal. Registration is restricted to international exchange students at Waterloo under an Exchange Agreement with the Faculty of Engineering. Candidates for degrees at the University of Waterloo are not eligible. ", "intro": "GENE 503 PRJ 2.50", "id": "Course ID: 005818", "name": "Directed Studies for Visiting Exchange Students"}]